Thank you for joining us. We have an exciting news event that we wanted you to hear first on the JW Broadcasting Television Station.
Our report comes to us from Turkmenistan, and presently our brothers and sisters endeavored to carry on their ministry in the same way that Jehovah's Witnesses do around the globe.
But what unique circumstances have some of them faced in past years?
And recently, what fair and reasonable action did the President of that country take in behalf of human rights?
To begin this story, we have with us, Brother Shane Brady, who is also a human rights lawyer and familiar with this significant account in Turkmenistan.
October 22, 2014 was a historic and happy day for Jehovah's Witnesses in Turkmenistan.
Eight of our brothers were released from prison based on a presidential animosity.
All of the brothers had been in prison because their Jehovah's Witnesses.
Some of the brothers had already been in prison for several years when they were released from prison.
Two of the brothers were serving their second term of imprisonment.
Turkmenistan is located on the east coast of the Caspian Sea.
During the past two decades, dozens of our brothers have been sent to prison because they would not accept compulsory military service.
The Bible contains many principles based on which I decided not to perform military service.
One of these principles is found in Isaiah chapter 2 verse 4, where it says that God's people will not go to war and not even learn war.
As a Christian, I understood that not only should I not go to war, but I should not even learn to hurt people.
I knew from the Bible what Jesus said in Matthew 2652, or it says,
return your sword to its place, for all those who take up the sword will perish by the sword.
From this scripture I understood that Jesus and Jehovah do not like wars.
Therefore, I refused.
At first, I was sentenced to a year and a half in a general security prison.
The second time, I was sentenced to two years in a high security prison.
Several were imprisoned based on fabricated charges.
Ibic Salaya was convicted on false charges in April 2012, and he was sentenced to four years in prison.
I was falsely accused of committing a crime that I didn't commit.
But the reason for that is that I am one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
On August 18, 2014, B.B. Ramoneva, a married mother of a little four-year-old boy, was convicted on false charges.
The court sentenced her to four years in prison.
Thankfully, on September 2, 2014, the appeal court ordered her to be released immediately from prison.
I was imprisoned on a false charge for something I didn't do.
Prison conditions were very difficult for our brothers,
but their strong faith helped them to endure.
The reason why it was hard for me to be imprisoned is that I have a family, a husband, and a little child.
So it was hard for me to be separated from them.
There was so much distance between us.
I have never been separated from them before.
That's why it was so hard for me to be imprisoned.
What helped me spiritually to stay firm in the faith was prayer to Jehovah.
I intensely prayed to Jehovah and felt that he was near.
Also, I shared what I knew with those around me.
The Bible verse I always reflected on is the verse where Jesus says,
the one who has endured to the end will be saved.
I always thought, I've taken the first step.
I'm already imprisoned for refusing military service,
but I understood that I must endure to the end.
That is, not just be sent to prison for the sake of the truth,
but come out with my integrity intact.
And this verse always helped me.
What helped me to keep a positive attitude was the example from the Bible of Daniel.
I know that an order was put forth, and after this, he continued praying three times a day.
I liked his attitude, and I did the same thing. I prayed three times a day.
And this helped me. And even after praying, I would sing songs.
For example, number two. Thank you, Jehovah.
And the second song was number seven, the dedication to Jehovah.
And the second thing that helped me was that I knew and was confident
that everyone was praying for me, the worldwide Brotherhood.
Imagine how happy the brothers were when they were finally released.
I'm extremely happy that I'm released and reunited with my family.
Above all, I want to thank Jehovah.
He really protected and supported me.
Whatever difficulty I had, he always was close to me.
I am thankful that I am with my family now, and can share my joy with them.
I am very happy.
When I came home and stepped through the doorway, I could hardly imagine how my son would react.
When he saw me, he threw his arms around my neck and hugged me, saying,
Mommy, I was overjoyed to see him so happy.
We hugged each other and cried.
My son told me, Mommy, don't ever leave me again.
I am so thankful to Jehovah that he reunited us.
He supported me so much in my trials and protected me.
I am happy to have found Jehovah.
It is an indescribable feeling when you are freed.
When someone is sent to prison, everyone gets that feeling like they will never get out of there.
So, when they freed us, it was such an incredible miracle.
All of us, we had such joy.
Until we got home, we couldn't believe we were free.
We thank the President of Turkmenistan for releasing Jehovah's Witnesses from prison.
Our brothers in Turkmenistan want to have a good relationship with the authorities.
They strive to be modal citizens and they respect the authority of the state.
We hope that these positive developments will continue and that the government of Turkmenistan
will allow Jehovah's Witnesses to worship peacefully their God according to their conscience.
To be a Christian means to live by Bible principles.
One of these principles is in 1 Timothy, chapter 2 verses 1 and 2, where it says,
First of all, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions and thanksgiving be made concerning all sorts of men,
concerning kings and all those who are in high positions so that we may go on leading a common quiet life
with complete godly devotion and seriousness.
I am very grateful to the authorities that they didn't let me serve my whole prison sentence but released me.
They gave me the opportunity to see my relatives and close friends.
I am very grateful to them.
My attitude toward the government has not changed since I always try to view them as Jehovah asks.
According to the principle in Romans, respect the superior authorities
because it says there that there is no authority except by God
and I always try to show them respect.
Also, I am grateful to them that we have and I have the possibility to rejoin my family.
My attitude toward the authorities has not changed at all
because the whole scripture teaches to respect the authorities.
I still have that same view now and do not feel any hatred toward them.
I am also thankful to them that they reunited my family
and did not leave me in prison for four years, but released me.
This is a significant moment in history for our fellow witnesses in Turkmenistan
and we are happy that our brothers involved are again united with their families in congregation.
As you know, there have been numerous legal cases in countries around the world
where the courts have ruled in favor of Jehovah's Witnesses right to freedom of worship.
Cases have also been filed to the international courts concerning the imprisonment of our brothers in Turkmenistan.
However, rather than waiting for those cases to be decided,
the president and current government officials in Turkmenistan took it upon themselves
to grant this amnesty in the interest of human rights and fairness.
We commend them and thank them for having the insight and courage to make such a significant decision
and we pray for them and for our brothers and sisters in that country.
Thank you again for joining us.
This is JW Broadcasting and Brooklyn, New York.